# SFN-Worker

**Simple Friendly Node.js Worker management for communications.**

## Notes

When you create a `new Worker()`, a new worker process will be forked. You can 
keep a worker alive, so when it exits accidentally, a new one will be forked 
to replace it.

This module is designed as convenient as it can, many of its methods can be 
used both in the master or in a worker process, and you can add event 
listeners and emit events both in the master and in the worker process.

This module uses predictable and user-defined IDs to differ workers, so 
you can always know which is which.

The package supports any version of Node.js that higher than 4.0.0.

## Install

```sh
npm install sfn-worker
```

## Example

```javascript
const Worker = require("sfn-worker");

if (Worker.isMaster) {
    // Master process
    // Create two workers A and B, and keep them alive.
    new Worker("A", true);
    new Worker("B", true);

    // Do logics when the worker is online.
    Worker.on("online", (worker) => {
        worker.on("greeting from worker", (msg) => {
            console.log("Worker %s: %s", worker.id, msg);

            // greet back
            worker.emit("greeting from master", `Hello, worker ${worker.id}!`);
        });
    });
} else {
    // Worker process
    Worker.on("online", worker => {
        worker.emit("greeting from worker", `Hi, master, I'm worker ${worker.id}!`);

        worker.on("greeting from master", msg => {
            console.log("Master: %s", msg);
        }).on("greeting from another worker", (id, msg) => {
            console.log("Worker %s: %s", id, msg);

            // greet back
            worker.to(id).emit("greeting back to another worker", worker.id, `Nice to meet you, worker ${id}!`);
        }).on("greeting back to another worker", (id, msg) => {
            console.log("Worker %s: %s", id, msg);
        });

        if (worker.id === "A") {
            worker.to("B").emit("greeting from another worker", "A", `Hi, worker B, I'm worker A!`);
        }
    });
}
```

## Events

These events really mean something if you bind events to them:

- `online`
- `error`
- `exit`

But they don't totally work in all circumstances, e.g. the `online` can only 
be used by `Worker.on()`.

## API

### constant `isMaster`

Whether the current process is the master process.

### constant `isWorker`

Whether the current process is a worker process, opposite to `isMaster`.

### `new Worker(id: string, keepAlive?: boolean)`

Creates a new worker. Be aware you can only create workers in the master 
process. If you set `keepAlive` to `true`, then when the worker process 
accidentally exits, a new one will be created to replace it immediately, thus 
keeping the worker always available.

The worker `id`, unlike the id generated by `cluster` or process `pid`, is 
user-defined and predictable, you can use any id you want to name the worker. 
And whenever you want to send messages, you can always know the receiver id.

```javascript
if(isMaster){
    // Always create workers in the master process.
    new Worker("A");
    new Worker("B", true); // Keep B alive.
}
```

### `worker.id`

The worker id you specified.

### `worker.keepAlive`

Whether the worker should keep alive, default is `false` if you don't set 
`keepAlive` to `true`.

### `worker.state`

The state of the worker, possible values are: `connecting`, `online` and 
`closed`, in a worker process, only shows `online`.

### `woker.isConnected(): boolean`

Whether the worker process is connected (`online`).

### `worker.isDead(): boolean`

Whether the worker process is dead (`closed`).

### `worker.on(event: string, listener: (...data?: Any[]) => void): this`

Adds a listener function to an event. The `listener` function will be 
called every time the `event` is triggered, it may accept parameters, which 
are the data sent by the other end of the worker, or other workers.

```javascript
worker.on("hi", (msg) => {
    console.log("worker says hi: '%s'", msg);
});
```

### `worker.once(event: string, listener: (...data?: Any[]) => void): this`

This method is similar to `worker.on()`, except the `listener` will be run only 
once.

### `worker.emit(event: string, ...data?: any[]): boolean`

Emits an `event` to the other end of the worker, `data` will be send to that 
end, so its event listeners can receive and manipulate them.

```javascript
worker.emit("hi", `Hello, I'm worker ${worker.id}.`);
```

### `worker.to(...workers: Array<string | Worker>): this`

Sets receivers that the event will only be emitted to them. Since *2.0*, you 
can call `to()` multiple times to concatenate several receivers.

```javascript
worker.to("A").emit("hi", `Hello, I'm worker ${worker.id}.`);

// or
worker.to(workerA).emit("hi", `Hello, I'm worker ${worker.id}.`);
```

### `worker.broadcast(event: string, ...data?: any[]): boolean`

Emits an `event` to all workers (the current one included). Remember, when you
broadcast a message, it will always be sent to worker ends, so listening such 
an event in the master process is meaningless and won't work. 

The reason why the current worker included is meant to reduce your work, if 
some event acts the same in all workers, then your can just write one piece of
code at where listens the event.

```javascript
worker.broadcast("hi", `Hi everybody, I'm worker ${worker.id}.`);
```

### `worker.getWorkers(cb?: (workers: Worker[]) => void): void | Promise<Worker[]>`

*deprecated* since *2.0*, use static version `Worker.getWorkers()` instead.

```javascript
worker.getWorkers(workers => {
    // ...
});

// Or
worker.getWorkers().then(workers => {
    // ...
});
```

### `worker.exit()`

Terminates the current worker. If this method is called, even if you set the 
worker to `keepAlive`, it will be terminated anyway.

### `worker.reboot()`

Restarts the current worker. If this method is called, even if you set the 
worker not to `keepAlive`, it will be restarted anyway.

### `Worker.on(event: string, listener: (...data: Any[]) => void): Worker`

The static version `on()` can only listens two events: `online`, and `exit`. 
When a worker is created and ready for communications, `online` event will be 
triggered.

```javascript
Worker.on("online", worker => {
    console.log("Worker %s is online.", worker.id);
    // ...
}).on("exit", worker => {
    console.log("Worker %s exits.", worker.id)
});
```

**Be aware**, binding a listener to `online` is required, and you must do any 
stuffs related to that `worker` in the listener function. This principle works
both in master or in a worker process.

### `Worker.emit(event: string, ...data?: any[]): boolean`

Similar to the instantiated version, but can only be used in the master 
process.

If you want to send messages in the master process actively, you can call this 
static version `emit()`, its usage is pretty much the same as the instantiated
version. Be aware this method will broadcast messages to all workers, unless 
you specify a receiver by calling `Worker.to()`.

### `Worker.to(...workers: Array<string | Worker>): Worker`

Similar to the instantiated version, but can only be used in the master 
process. Since *2.0*, you can call `to()` multiple times to concatenate 
several receivers.

```javascript
Worker.to("A").emit("event name", "Hi, worker A!");

// or
Worker.to(workerA).emit("event name", "Hi, worker A!");
```

### `Worker.broadcast(event: string, ...data?: any[]): boolean`

Similar to the instantiated version, but can only be used in the master 
process.

```javascript
Worker.broadcast("event name", "Hi, everyone, I'm your master!");
```

### `Worker.getWorkers(cb?: (workers: Worker[]) => void): void | Promise<Worker[]>`

This method allows you getting all connected workers, whether in the master or
a worker process. If you provide the argument `cb`, it accepts one parameter, 
which is an array carries all workers. If you don't provide `cb`, then a 
`Promise` will be returned, and the callback function of `then()` is very much
the same as `cb`.

```javascript
Worker.getWorkers(workers => {
    // ...
});

// Or
Worker.getWorkers().then(workers => {
    // ...
});
```

Be aware, **DON'T** add event listeners to the workers got by this method, 
they won't work in the worker process. Actually, you should always add event 
listeners in the event `online` scope.

### `Worker.getWorker(cb:? (worker: Worker) => void): void | Promise<Worker>`

This method allows you getting the current worker instance in a worker process
outside the `Worker.on("online")` scope. It's very helpful sometimes when you 
want to get the worker, but you don't want to or it's hard to put your code 
inside `Worker.on("online")` (e.g. in separated files or scopes).

If you don't pass a `cb` function, this method will return a `Promise`. If the
worker isn't ready, then the callback function will be called whenever the 
worker is online.

```javascript
Worker.on("online", worker => {
    // ...
});

// Outside the scope:
Worker.getWorker(worker => {
    // ...
});

// or
Worker.getWorker().then(worker => {
    // ...
});
```